.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" GNU Alive is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" @(#)alive.8 1.1 13-Aug-2004 OF; from alive archive
.TH alive 8 "13th August, 2004"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
GNU Alive \- Auto-login & keep-alive for Internet connections.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alive
[-h] [-c conffile] [-p pidfile] [-loPsdvV]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Frustrated about having to "log in" to your paid Internet connection?

.B GNU Alive
is a small utility that automates the login process to Telia, COMHEM,
Tiscali and other Internet Service Providers, ISPs. It features a
keep-alive daemon that periodically connects to your ISP ensuring that
your connection to the Internet are not logged out all of a sudden.

Alive works for any type of connection where your ISP has put a login
server in your way.

GNU Alive was previously known as qadsl.

.SH OPTIONS
.B GNU Alive
options are available in traditional POSIX one letter options prefixed
with a single '\-' or the new popular \-\-long\-options style.

.TP
\fB \-h, \-\-help \fR
Displays a summary of the command line options.
.TP
\fB \-c, \-\-conf\-file=\fIfile \fR
Use settings from
.I file
insted of default
.I /etc/alive.conf
or
.I $HOME/.aliverc

.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-pid\-file=\fIfile \fR
Use
.I file
as pid/lock file instead of default
.I /var/run/alive.pid

.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-port=\fIPORT \fR
Use
.I PORT
to connect to on LOGIN_SERVER.
.TP
\fB \-l, \-\-login \fR
Login to the given LOGIN_SERVER.
.TP
\fB \-o, \-\-logout \fR
Try to logout, close the Internet connection.
.TP
\fB \-s, \-\-status \fR
Display status of alive daemon.
.TP
\fB \-V, \-\-version \fR
Displays version informaiton.
.TP
\fB \-v, \-\-verbose \fR
Verbose, print more information at runtime.
.TP
\fB \-d, \-\-debug \fR
Debug, print even more information, huge amounts.

.SH USAGE
First setup your alive.conf file with the information you have
received from your ISP. It should be at least the name (or IP)
of their login server, your login ID and and password.

Different providers have setup their login servers differently.
See the sample alive.conf file included in this package for
help on setting up Alive for your ISP.

If you have problems connecting the flags --verbose and --debug
are really useful tools that let you see all the interactions
between Alive and the login server. However, please note that
when the login daemon has started you will not see anything more on
your screen. Instead you have to consult the system logfiles. On a
Debian system the file /var/log/daemon.log is where Alive logs go.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/alive.conf
Usually the location of a system wide Alive configuration file.
.TP
.I $HOME/.aliverc
User configuration file, takes precedent over any global file.

.SH SEE ALSO
The alive.conf (5) man page describes the componentes of the
configuration file.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
Telia AB ADSL service, COMHEM Cable internet service, Tiscali Internet
(ADSL or broadband), or similiar service based on Orbyte Wireless System.

.SH AUTHORS
Joachim Nilsson
.br
Jakob "kuba" Stasilowicz
.TP
Thanks to these people for making GNU Alive possible:
.br
Peter Stromberg - code
.br
Kenth Garlov - code
.br
Martin Samuelsson - Initial Debian package
.br
Nicklas Larsson - First manpage.

.SH URL
http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/alive/
