.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" GNU Alive is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH alive.conf 5 "13th August, 2004"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
alive.conf \- GNU Alive configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Usually found in /etc/alive.conf and contains username, password and
login server information for your Internet connection.

.SH SYNTAX
The alive.conf syntax is extremely free form. So if you have ever
peeked into a UNIX configuration file before, you should be right
at home, you should not even have to read any further ...

For those of you who hate configuration files, or never have seen
one before, you should proceed directly to the examples section.

To those of you who run Alive from your personal login account,
then you can setup a private config file as \.aliverc, or supply
different config files each time using the command line switch
--conf-file=filename.

The config file format is very simple and straight forward.  Each
setting is made up of a NAME=VALUE pair, with optional whitespace
around both NAME and VALUE.  For boolean settings both YES and NO
as well as TRUE and FALSE can be used, regardless of how it is
written: True, yES, fAlSe, etc.

To make things even more simple, or confusing, most of the settings
have name aliases.  E.g., LOGIN_SERVER can be shortened down to just
SERVER.  The TeXinfo manual provides a full listing of all available
settings, this man page is only here for convenience.

The examples section starts off by listing the required settings
needed to run GNU Alive.  They are, in no particular order: USERNAME,
PASSWORD and LOGIN_SERVER.  The rest of the available settings are
explained here.

START_DAEMON, Most people want this.  It means that the keep-alive
daemon is started and runs every INTERVAL minutes.  Default is
enabled.

DAEMON_TYPE, can be either set to LOGIN or PING.  Default is LOGIN.
The PING feature is not a real ICMP ping, instead it works like this:
when the daemon wakes up after a long sleep it first requests the
page /sd/init from the server and when everything is OK the server
redirects the daemon to an external Internet address, often the
home page of the ISP.  However, when not logged in anymore the
page /sd/init is the login page and here is where the DAEMON_TYPE
setting comes in.  When the daemon wakes up and receives a login
page from /sd/init then LOGIN does relogin, while PING only makes the
daemon go back to sleep.  Most people want the daemon to login again
and hence the default is set to LOGIN.

DAEMON_DELAY, or INTERVAL, is how long the daemon should sleep between
each alive check.  Default is five minutes.

PORT, SERVER_PORT, is where on the login server commands should be
sent.  This is usally port 80, the standard web server port, but
could be something else for some ISP's.

.SH EXAMPLES
Most of the time you only need to supply a USERNAME, PASSWORD
and LOGIN_SERVER. Like this:

USERNAME     = u1234567
.br
PASSWORD     = pwd12345
.br
LOGIN_SERVER = valo1.tiscali.se

However, it is a lot safer to set the LOGIN_SERVER setting to
as a pure IP address, like this:

LOGIN_SERVER = 10.0.0.6

This because the name of the login server sometimes is not listed
in the name server (DNS) of your ISP. The number 10.0.0.6 is the
default for all Orbyte Wireless System installations.

# Username
.br
USERNAME     = u1234567

# Password
.br
PASSWORD     = pwd12345

# Login Server, DNS name or IP number, often 10.0.0.6 or 192.168.2.1
.br
# Tiscali      valo1.tiscali.se
.br
# Telia        login1.telia.com
.br
# COMHEM       login1.comhem.se
.br
SERVER       = 10.0.0.6

# Start daemon [YES/NO]?
.br
START_DAEMON = YES

# Daemon type [LOGIN/PING]?
.br
DEAMON_TYPE  = LOGIN

# Daemon delay in minutes.
.br
INTERVAL     = 20

.SH SEE ALSO
The alive (8) man page describes startup, debug mode, and general tips.

.SH AUTHOR
Joachim Nilsson

.SH URL
http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/alive/
