\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This file uses the @command command introduced in Texinfo 4.0.
@c %**start of header
@setfilename qadsl.info
@settitle Auto-login & keep-alive for Internet connections.
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 1.3.0

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{qadsl} utility. An auto-login &
keep-alive daemon for Internet connections.

Copyright (C) 2001 Jakob ``kuba'' Stasilowicz @email{kuba()unix!se}
Copyright (C) 2003 Joachim Nilsson @email{joachim.nilsson()member!fsf!org}

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title qadsl
@subtitle Auto-login & keep-alive daemon for Internet connections.
@subtitle for qadsl Version @value{VERSION}
@author by Joachim Nilsson

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2003 Joachim Nilsson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage

@c All the nodes can be updated using the EMACS command
@c texinfo-every-node-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-e.
@node Top, Instructions, (dir), (dir)

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{qadsl} utility. An auto-login &
keep-alive daemon for Internet connections.
@end ifinfo

@c All the menus can be updated with the EMACS command
@c texinfo-all-menus-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-a.
@menu
* Instructions::                How to read this manual. 
* Copying::                     How you can copy and share @command{qadsl}.
* Overview::                    Preliminary information.
* Sample::                      Sample output from @command{qadsl}.
* Invoking qadsl::              How to run @command{qadsl}.
* Problems::                    Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
@end menu

@node Instructions, Copying, Top, Top
@chapter How to Read This Manual

@cindex reading
@cindex manual, how to read
@cindex how to read
To read this manual, begin at the beginning, reading from left to right
and top to bottom, until you get to the end.  Then stop.  You may pause
for a beer anywhere in the middle as well, if you wish.  (Please note,
however, that The King strongly advises against heavy use of
prescription pharmaceuticals, based on his extensive personal and
professional experience.)

@node Copying, Overview, Instructions, Top
@include gpl.texinfo

@node Overview, Sample, Copying, Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

GNU @command{qadsl} produces the familiar, UNIX traditional, complete
lack of output when everything works.

It allows nonprogrammers to use a classic computer science tool which
would otherwise be unavailable to them.  Because it is protected by the
GNU General Public License, users are free to share and change it.

GNU @command{qadsl} was written by Joachim Nilsson. Its predecessor,
qadsl was written by Jakob Stasilowicz.

@node Sample, Invoking qadsl, Overview, Top
@chapter Sample Output
@cindex sample

Here are some realistic examples of running @command{qadsl}.

This is the output of the command @samp{qadsl}:

@example
hello, world!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{qadsl --help}:

@example
Usage: qadsl [OPTION...]
Auto-login & keep-alive for Internet connections.

  -v, --verbose              Print more information
  -?, --help                 Give this help list
      --usage                Give a short usage message
  -V, --version              Print program version
  -l, --login                Login to the Internet
  -o, --logout               Logout the connection
  -p, --pid-file=file        Use file instead of /var/run/qadsl.pid
  -c, --conf-file=file       Use file instead of /etc/qadsl.conf

Report bugs to @email{joachim.nilsson()member!fsf!org}
@end example

@node Invoking qadsl, Problems, Sample, Top
@chapter Invoking @command{qadsl}
@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running the @command{qadsl} program is:

@example
qadsl @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

@code{qadsl} supports the following options:

@c Formatting copied from the Texinfo 4.0 manual.
@table @code
@item --verbose
@itemx -v
Print more information.

@item --help
@itemx -?
Print an informative help message describing the options and then exit
successfully.

@item --usage
Briefly list the options.

@item --version
@itemx -V
Print the version number of @command{qadsl} on the standard output
and then exit successfully.

@item --login
@itemx -l
Login to the Internet connection.

@item --logout
@itemx -o
Logout from the Internet connection.

@item --pid-file file
@itemx -p file
Use file as lock file instead of the default /var/run/qadsl.pid

@item --conf-file file
@itemx -c file
Use file as configuration file instead of the default /etc/qadsl.conf
@end table

@node Problems, Concept Index, Invoking qadsl, Top
@chapter Reporting Bugs
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems

If you find a bug in @command{qadsl}, please report it using the
Savannah bug report tool at http://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=qadsl

Include the version number, which you can find by running 
@w{@samp{qadsl --version}}.  Also include in your message the
output that the program produced and the output you expected.@refill

If you have other questions, comments or suggestions about
@command{qadsl}, use the mailing lists listed on the qadsl project
page on Savannah, http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/qadsl/.  The author
will try to help you out, although he may not have time to fix your
problems.

@node Concept Index,  , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@cindex tail recursion
@printindex cp

@shortcontents
@contents
@bye
