.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" qadsl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH QADSL 1 "1st January, 2004"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
qadsl.conf \- qadsl configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqadsl.conf\fP is usually found in /etc/qadsl.conf and contains
username, password and login server information for your Internet
connection.

.SH SYNTAX
The qadsl.conf syntax is extremely free form. So if you have ever
peeked into a UNIX configuration file before, you should be right
at home, you should even not have to read any further ...

For those of you who hate configuration files or never have seen
one before, you should proceed directly to the examples section.

For most of the time you only need to supply a USERNAME, PASSWORD
and LOGIN_SERVER. Like this:

USERNAME     = 123456@tiscali
PASSWORD     = zw2d4a
LOGIN_SERVER = valo1.tiscali.se

However, most of the time the LOGIN_SERVER setting should be given
as a pure IP address, like this:

LOGIN_SERVER = 10.0.0.6

This because the name of the login server sometimes is not listed
in the name server (DNS) of your ISP.

.SH AUTHOR
Joachim Nilsson <joachim.nilsson@member.fsf.org>.
